# My ORM

### What is an ORM?
  To me, Object-relational mapping deals with the idea of storing everything in its place.  While there are cases when getting ONE specific field from a database table may make sense, most of the time, if you're going to make a trip to the database, why not carry a full backpack?  When I send a query to a database it makes the most sense to bring back a feasible amount of information.  With this abundance of information, the best way to package it neatly to be manipulated is as an Object.  With all of the information from a set of rows saved as Objects I have more maneuverability with ruby than I would with a set of unwieldy Hashes.
  
###How does your ORM help you get all of a particular table's rows from the database?
  When making a query with "SELECT * FROM fake_table_name WHERE fake_column_name = something_i_define" I get sent back a list of rows (organized as an Array of Hashes) specific to my query.  With the "*" portion of the SQL query, I can create full fledged Objects from the information in the database table.
  
###How does your ORM represent rows from a table, given that Ruby doesn't have a Table data structure?
  In aligning a model with a specific table, I can match the @attributes of that Object with the column names of that table.  In doing so, the Hash returned from the query fits like a glove in the Object mold I have created.  This in-turn allows me the built-in flexibility from Ruby to work with the Objects (which are essentially rows in a table wearing fancy clothes).  The matching of attributes and column names also has the benefit of being able to seamlessly insert or update a row in a table using a Ruby Object as the specialized tool.

###How does your ORM convert rows from a table into the Ruby data structure (which you identified in the previous question)?
  After making a SQL query, my return is an Array of Hashes.  Due to the premeditated matching of the column names with the attributes of that Object, a fairly simple set of code can transform each key => value pair of the Hash into a personalized Ruby Object.  By iterating through the Array, I have turned a lump of coal into a shiny diamond.	
